README.md, before:

# maya-transfer-blend-shape
Retarget your blend shapes between meshes with the same topology.

<p align="center"><img src="docs/_images/transfer-blend-shape-ui.png?raw=true"></p>

## Installation
* Extract the content of the .rar file anywhere on disk.
* Drag the transfer-blend-shape.mel file in Maya to permanently install the script.

## Usage
A button on the MiscTools shelf will be created that will allow easy access to 
the ui, this way the user doesn't need to worry about any of the code. If user 
wishes to not use the shelf button the following commands can be used. The 
transfer will only work if at least one vertex has no delta, these fixed 
vertices are used to transfer the solution to the correct position in object 
space, the threshold can be increased to make sure vertices are linked.

The number of iterations determine the amount of times the laplacian smoothing
matrix is applied to the deformed vertices. This smoothing matrix is
calculated using weights determined by area difference on a per-vertex basis.

When the target is set/changed either by initializing the Transfer object or 
via the UI the target matrix is calculated, this can be quite time consuming.

Command line:
```python
import transfer_blend_shape
transfer = transfer_blend_shape.Transfer(source, target, iterations=3, threshold=0.001)
transfer.execute_from_mesh(mesh, name)
transfer.execute_from_blend_shape()
```

Display UI:
```python
import transfer_blend_shape.gui
transfer_blend_shape.gui.show()
```

## Note
This tool requires *numpy* and *scipy* to be installed to your environment. 
Using linux or Maya 2022+ on windows this can be done via a simple pip 
install. For older windows versions a custom version will have to be compiled 
against the correct VS version.

Commit message:

add colour sets for debugging

README.md, after:

# maya-transfer-blend-shape
Retarget your blend shapes between meshes with the same topology.

<p align="center"><img src="docs/_images/transfer-blend-shape-ui.png?raw=true"></p>

## Installation
* Extract the content of the .rar file anywhere on disk.
* Drag the transfer-blend-shape.mel file in Maya to permanently install the script.

## Usage
A button on the MiscTools shelf will be created that will allow easy access to 
the ui, this way the user doesn't need to worry about any of the code. If user 
wishes to not use the shelf button the following commands can be used. The 
transfer will only work if at least one vertex has no delta, these fixed 
vertices are used to transfer the solution to the correct position in object 
space, the threshold can be increased to make sure vertices are linked.

When the target is set/changed either by initializing the Transfer object or
via the UI the target matrix is calculated, this can be quite time consuming.

The number of iterations determine the amount of times the laplacian smoothing
matrix is applied to the deformed vertices. This smoothing matrix is
calculated using weights determined by area difference on a per-vertex basis.

Colour sets can be created to visualize the deformed vertices and the 
laplacian smoothing weights.

Command line:
```python
import transfer_blend_shape
transfer = transfer_blend_shape.Transfer(source, target, iterations=3, threshold=0.001)
transfer.execute_from_mesh(mesh, name)
transfer.execute_from_blend_shape()
```

Display UI:
```python
import transfer_blend_shape.gui
transfer_blend_shape.gui.show()
```

## Note
This tool requires *numpy* and *scipy* to be installed to your environment. 
Using linux or Maya 2022+ on windows this can be done via a simple pip 
install. For older windows versions a custom version will have to be compiled 
against the correct VS version.
